---
menu_title: Glossary
title: "Flyover Protocol Documentation | Glossary"
description: "Welcome to the flyover documentation, learn about the flyover architecture, how to get started and integrate the flyover protocol into your project."
tags: flyover, powpeg, peg-in, peg-out, 2way-peg, bridge, rbtc, btc, testnet, mainnet, guide, setup, integrate, use
layout: rsk
---

See a list of terms about/related to the Flyover Protocol and their meanings.

- `callFee`
    - callFee is made up of the LP fee, service fee, and gas limit fees. User has to send the sum of value plus `callFee`. It is the default fee to be applied to a quote.
- Client: 
    - This refers to a user sending BTC to RSK or a wallet service that integrates the flyover protocol.
- `quoteHash`: 
    - This is a 64 digit number that derives from a quote object. Quote hash can be generated by calling `LBC.hashQuote()` contract function. A `hashQuote` is the function the LBC offers to generate the `quoteHash` from a [quote](/guides/flyover/design-architecture#operations) object.
- EOA:
    - Externally owned accounts (EOAs) are accounts that are controlled by users who control the private keys for an account or wallet, these keys are typically generated using a seed phrase. 
- Liquidity Provider (LP): 
    - The [LP](/guides/flyover/design-architecture#liquidity-provider-lp) is in charge of making an RSK call or advancing funds on behalf of the user.
- Liquidity Provider Server (LPS): 
    - An [LPS](/guides/flyover/tools#liquidity-provider-server-lps) is a server that runs an LP node and allows a connection from remote LPs via HTTP. A Testnet instance of an LPS is available at: [`https://flyover-lps.testnet.rsk.co/`](https://flyover-lps.testnet.rsk.co/).
- Liquidity Bridge Contract (LBC): 
    - The [LBC](/guides/flyover/design-architecture#liquidity-bridge-contract-lbc) is the smart contract that controls the operations of the Flyover protocol. See the verified LBC address on [RSK Explorer](https://explorer.rsk.co/address/0x0fc7386a22e00629fe611516b2c97004d5ff4082) and on [RSK Testnet Explorer](https://explorer.testnet.rsk.co/address/0x0d77ed96104f41295d011ba16f4b79542bd7e390?__ctab=Code).
- Locking cap: 
    - This is the limit specified in the bridge which rejects transactions once the lock cap is exceeded, and will begin accepting transactions when funds in the network decreases. Note: This limit is a security measure and may increase in the future.
- PegIn: 
    - This is the process of converting BTC to RBTC. See [Mainnet Guide](https://developers.rsk.co/rsk/rbtc/conversion/networks/mainnet/).
- PegOut: 
    - This is the process of converting RBTC to BTC. See [Mainnet Guide](https://developers.rsk.co/rsk/rbtc/conversion/networks/mainnet/) guide.
- penaltyFee:
    - The penalty fee that the LP pays if it fails to deliver the service. This is a value defined in the LPS's config file. As of now, in testnet it is set to `1000000` wei, for mainnet, this value is yet to be defined.
- Powpeg:
    - The [2wp-app](https://app.2wp.rootstock.io/) is a tool that enables the easy use of the PowPeg protocol.
- Refund address:
    - This address is used only in the case that the locking cap on the bridge is surpassed. There are two types of refund addresses; `rskRefundAddress` and `btcRefundAddress`. See [parameters](/guides/flyover/design-architecture#operations) section for more information.
- Quote: 
    - The [quote](/guides/flyover/design-architecture#quote) structure defines the conditions of a service, and acts as a contract between users and liquidity providers. It returns an array of [quotes](/guides/flyover/get-started#getquote).