---
menu_order: 500
menu_title: Glossary
layout: rsk
title: RIF Rollup | Glossary
description: RIF Rollup Terms and Meaning
tags: rif, aggregation, zksync, rollup, glossary, rif-rollup
---

Here is a list of terms used throughout the documentation and their meaning.

<table>
    <tr>
   <td> <b>Terms</b>

   </td>
   <td> <b>Meaning</b>

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>L1

   </td>
   <td>The base layer blockchain, such as Rootstock (RSK), which provides foundational network and security for transactions and smart contracts.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rollup

   </td>
   <td>A secondary layer (L2) built on top of L1 that processes transactions off-chain for scalability and efficiency, often utilizing technologies like zkSync to bundle transactions into a single proof.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Owner

   </td>
   <td>A user who has control over assets on the layer-2 blockchain (L2).

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Operator

   </td>
   <td>The entity responsible for managing the Rollup's operations, including processing transactions and submitting proofs to the L1 blockchain.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eventually

   </td>
   <td>Describes an event or action that will occur within a finite amount of time.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Assets in Rollup

   </td>
   <td>Assets that are held in a layer-2 smart contract, controlled by their respective owners.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rollup Key

   </td>
   <td>A private key used by the owner to control assets deposited in the Rollup.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rollup Block

   </td>
   <td>Refers to a batch of multiple user transactions processed off-chain, for which a single proof of validity is submitted to the L1 blockchain.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rescue Signature

   </td>
   <td>A signature generated by signing the owner's message with their private key, used in Rollup internal transactions.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Fee Token

   </td>
   <td>A token that has a liquid market volume and is listed for paying transaction fees in the Rollup.

   </td>
   <tr>
   <td>ZKP (Zero-knowledge proof)

   </td>
   <td>A method by which one party can prove to another party that they know a value x, without conveying any information apart from the fact that they know the value x.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Transaction

   </td>
   <td>Actions submitted by users directly to the Rollup operator, involving the transfer or management of assets.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Priority Operation

   </td>
   <td>Actions that users can submit directly to the zkSync smart contract, usually to ensure their transaction is processed with a certain priority.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rollup Operation

   </td>
   <td>A part of the rollup block that represents either a Transaction or a Priority operation.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Onchain Operation

   </td>
   <td>Actions that the operator can include in the rollup block's public data (pubdata), which are recorded on the L1 blockchain.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Node Implementation

   </td>
   <td>A model describing the operational structure or behavior of a transaction within the Rollup network.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Circuit Implementation

   </td>
   <td>A model describing the operation and its witness within the context of zk-SNARKs or similar cryptographic processes.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Chunk

   </td>
   <td>The dimension or unit of an operation within the Rollup, with each chunk having its own portion of public data allocated through witnesses.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Significant Bytes

   </td>
   <td>The number of meaningful bytes within all bytes occupied by an operation, including the operation number.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Hash

   </td>
   <td>The outcome of the SHA-256 function when applied to an operation's pubdata, used for operation identification.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>zk-SNARKs

   </td>
   <td>A form of zero-knowledge proof technology that allows for privacy-preserving transaction verification without revealing any specific details of the transactions themselves.

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>on-chain Data Availability

   </td>
   <td>The process whereby, after off-chain transaction processing, a cryptographic proof (zkRollup) summarizing all transaction data is committed to the Rootstock blockchain. This includes a cryptographic hash representing state changes without detailing the transactions themselves, ensuring data availability and verifiability.

   </td>
  </tr>
</table>